{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww17540\viewh9580\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
STRUCTURE OF DISTRIBUTION:\
\
1- tsl.properties:  File containing startup parameters.  The parameters you may want to edit include:\
\
SelectedGrammar:  semantic grammar to be used\
\
ontology:  ontology definition file to be used\
\
2. GrammarRules:  This folder contains grammars for different NLP tasks.\
\
3. MoonstoneDemo.jar.  Runnable Moonstone jar file. \
\
4. MoonstoneTutorial1.pptx:  Simple tutorial for using the Moonstone GUI tool to create and test some simple grammar rules having to do with the social risk factor "LivingAlone".   To use this tutorial, you need to reference the "DemoGrammar" grammar and "DemoOntology" ontology in tsl.properties.\
\
5. resources:  Folder containing various file resources, including the ontology definition files.\
\
HOW TO STARTUP THE MOONSTONE GUI:\
\
Edit tsl.properties if necessary, then either open a file explorer app and double-click on the MoonstoneDemo.jar icon, or else open a shell or terminal app, move to the location of the distribution folder and type "java -jar MoonstoneDemo.jar".\
\
To parse a sentence, type the sentence into the top text panel of the GUI, then select Interpretation->Get Interpreted Pattern Analysis Annotations.  The parse tree is displayed in the center panel.  If you select a node in this tree, you will see the grammar rule definition in the lower panel.  You can also select Rules->View Selected Rule In Text Editor to pop up an editable copy of the file containing the grammar rule.  If you edit the rule, you can reinitialize the grammar by selecting Rules->Reload Rules From File.\
\
HOW TO EXIT THE MOONSTONE GUI:\
\
Select Operations -> Exit Rule Builder\
\
\
}